Docs 5646 improve navigability of policies section pa (#140)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/policies-landing-page.adoc

endif::[]
:keywords: policy, custom, ootb, offline

Policies enable you to enforce regulations to help manage security, control traffic, and improve adaptability of your APIs. For example, a policy can control authentication, access, allotted consumption, and service level access (SLA). 

You can implement all these regulations with no modification to the code implementation. Mulesoft provides ready-to-use default policies that are shipped with the product. Additionally, you can create custom policies based on your specific business requirements.

You can apply policies to any HTTP-based APIs, such as:

* An APIkit project
+

> For example, deploy the APIkit project to Anypoint Platform using API Autodiscovery and apply a policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, deploy the APIkit project to Anypoint Platform using API autodiscovery, and then apply a policy.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
* An API running on CloudHub
+
Design an API on Anypoint Platform, configure a proxy for Cloudhub, and apply a policy.

> * An API deployed to a private or cloud-based Mule Runtime 3.8.x or later

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An API deployed to a private or cloud-based Mule runtime engine 3.8.x or later
```
GLOBALLY replace all other wordings with "Mule runtime engine" or "Mule" (after introducing "Mule runtime engine (Mule)", in all writing.

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> You can apply a policy to any API implemented with Mulesoft as long as the API is exposed through an HTTP listener. You can also apply a policy to APIs not implemented with Mulesoft by deploying a Proxy application to control how and when a received request is forwarded to its implementation endpoint. API Manager supports the following proxy types: RAML/Rest, HTTP, or SOAP-based.

Reviewer: "MuleSoft" is not a product. The product is Anypoint Platform, run by Mule runtime engine. GLOBALLY search for "mulesoft" and replace as appropriate. Use "MuleSoft" only to refer to the company.

```suggestion
You can apply a policy to any API implemented in Anypoint Platform, as long as the API is exposed through an HTTP listener. You can also apply a policy to APIs not implemented in Anypoint Platform by deploying a proxy application to control how and when a received request is forwarded to its implementation endpoint. Anypoint API Manager supports RAML, HTTP, or SOAP-based proxies.
```
RAML = RESTful API Modeling Language, so no need for "/Rest"

Author: Thanks! Done!

> When applying a policy, you can set an API alert to notify you when an API request violates a policy for a given SLA. By default, a policy applies to the entire API, filtering traffic requests to every resource and method. This can be configured to provide resource-level granularity, if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When applying an SLA policy, you can set an API alert to notify you when an API request violates that policy. By default, a policy applies to the entire API, filtering traffic requests to every resource and method. You can configure this to provide resource-level granularity if needed.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> In Mule Runtime 3.8.0 and later, you can enhance security through policies by using Gatekeeper. Gatekeeper is a functionality that disables an API until all online policies are applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Mule runtime engine 3.8.0 and later, you can enhance security through policies by using Gatekeeper, a functionality that disables an API until all online policies are applied.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

endif::[]
:keywords: policy, custom, ootb, offline

Policies enable you to enforce regulations to help manage security, control traffic, and improve adaptability of your APIs. For example, a policy can control authentication, access, allotted consumption, and service level access (SLA). You can implement all these regulations with no modification to the code implementation. Mulesoft provides ready-to-use default policies that are shipped with the product. Additionally, you can also create custom policies based on your specific business requirements.

> You can apply policies to these types of APIs:

Reviewer 2: You can apply policies to any HTTP based API, for instance:

Author: Done! Thanks!

Author: Done! Thanks!

* An APIkit project
+
For example, deploy the APIkit project to Anypoint Platform using API Autodiscovery and apply a policy.
+
* An API running on CloudHub
+
Design an API on Anypoint Platform, configure a proxy for Cloudhub, and apply a policy.
* An API deployed to a private or cloud-based Mule Runtime 3.8.x or later
+

> You can apply a policy to any API implemented with Mulesoft for any of the proxy types: RAML/Rest, HTTP, or SOAP-based as long as the proxy is exposed through an HTTP endpoint.

Reviewer 2: Replace "You can apply a policy to any API implemented with Mulesoft for any of the proxy types: RAML/Rest, HTTP, or SOAP-based as long as the proxy is exposed through an HTTP endpoint." with

"You can apply a policy to any API implemented with Mulesoft as long as the API is exposed through an HTTP listener"

Author: Done! Thanks!

Author: Done! Thanks!

> You can also apply a policy to APIs not implemented with Mulesoft by deploying a Proxy application to control how and when a received request is forwarded to its implementation endpoint.

Reviewer 2: We can add at the end of this sentence. API Manager supports the following proxy types: RAML/Rest, HTTP, or SOAP-based.

Author: Done! Thanks!

Author: Done! Thanks!

 You deploy a proxy API application and apply one or more policies to control how and when a received request is forwarded to its implementation endpoint. You can set an API alert to notify you when an API request violates a policy for SLA. By default, a policy applies to the entire API, filtering traffic requests to every resource and method. In Mule Runtime 3.8.0 and later, you can enhance security through policies by using Gatekeeper. Gatekeeper disables an API until all online policies are applied.

> 

Reviewer 2: This section is very outdated: 

* API Gateway Runtime 2.x: has been deprecated, we should not mention it. 
* I would change this to say that you can apply a policy to any API implemented with Mulesoft, be RAML/Rest based, HTTP or SOAP based as long as it is exposed through an HTTP endpoint.

You can also apply a policy to APIs not implemented with Mulesoft by deploying a Proxy application to control how and when a received request is forwarded to its implementation endpoint.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> You can set an API alert to notify you when an API request violates a policy for SLA. By default, a policy applies to the entire API, filtering traffic requests to every resource and method. In Mule Runtime 3.8.0 and later, you can enhance security through policies by using Gatekeeper. Gatekeeper disables an API until all online policies are applied.

Reviewer 2: Seems like many different things in the same sentence. 

Suggestion:

"By applying a policy, you can set an API alert to notify you when an API request violates a policy for a given SLA.

By default, a policy applies to the entire API, filtering traffic requests to every resource and method. This can be configured to provide resource level granularity if needed.

In Mule Runtime 3.8.0 and later, you can enhance security through policies by using Gatekeeper. Gatekeeper is a functionality that disables an API until all online policies are applied"

"

Author: Done! Thanks!

Author: Done! Thanks!

== Policy Architechture

Policies are implemented through coordinated communication between the following components:

* API Manager
* One or more API Gateway Runtimes or Mule 3.8.0 Runtime or later
* One or more API proxy applications

> Using API Manager, you can configure and apply policies to an API version for an Anypoint Platform account and organization. +

Reviewer 2: @priyaayyar is this for 2.x documentation? Because we introduced the concept of instance, you apply policies to an API instance (instead of version, a version can have multiple instanceS)

Author: Removed the last bullet and made some changes. Thanks! Done! Another review of this section is needed.

> * One or more API proxy applications

Reviewer 2: One or more API Proxy or API applications

Author: Done! Thanks!

Author: Done! Thanks!

> A specific API version can also be tied to a specific API implementation endpoint, which can then auto-generate an API proxy application. +

Reviewer 2: API instance instead of API version

Author: Done! Thanks!

> You can deploy an API Proxy to a Mule runtime, or to a standalone API Gateway Runtime if your API implementation runs on a Mule Runtime 3.7.0 or older.

Reviewer 2: Let's remove the "or to a standalone API Gateway Runtime if your API implementation runs on a Mule Runtime 3.7.0 or older."

Reviewer 2: The reason is that these are very old versions

Author: Done! Thanks!

> Mule Runtime 3.8.0 and later already include all the API gateway capabilities embedded within the runtime.

Reviewer 2: we can remove this line

Author: Done! Thanks!

Each API proxy application receives requests on HTTP or HTTPS URLs specified by the API. Normally requests are forwarded to the corresponding API implementation endpoint URL, and then the response travels through the API proxy application back to the requesting client application.

== Policy Injection and Enforcement

> When you deploy an API proxy application for a specific API version to a Mule Runtime, any applied policies in the runtime or policies folder are injected into the API proxy. This changes the behavior of the application. When the proxy application receives a new request, all injected policies are applied to decide if, and how, the request is forwarded to the API implementation endpoint.

Reviewer 2: "any applied policies in the platform or offline policies in the runtime are injected into the API proxy"

Author: Done! Thanks!

Author: Done! Thanks!

> When you deploy an API proxy application for a specific API version to a legacy API Gateway Runtime or to Mule Runtime 3.8.0 or later, any applied policies in the runtime or policies folder are injected into the API proxy. This changes the behavior of the application. When the proxy application receives a new request, all injected policies are applied to decide if, and how, the request is forwarded to the API implementation endpoint.

Reviewer 2: replace "to a legacy API Gateway Runtime or to Mule Runtime 3.8.0 or later" with "to a Mule Runtime"

Author: Done! Thanks!

In this way, the actual policy enforcement occurs inside the proxy application itself, minimizing the cross talk between the API proxy, which is processing the received request, the Anypoint Platform agent, and online API Manager. The API proxy application does not require any communication with the Anypoint Platform agent running in the runtime, nor does it require any communication with API Manager.

However, the Anypoint Platform agent remains connected to API Manager. After policies are reconfigured or removed from API Manager, those policies are downloaded to any connected API Gateway or Mule runtimes, which updates each runtime /policies folder. The policy changes are then again injected into each API proxy application. This allows policies to be dynamically changed without having to redeploy the API proxy application, and without having to restart the API Gateway or Mule runtimes.

> == See Also

Reviewer 2: We should refer to gatekeeper documentation if it's not there already: https://docs.mulesoft.com/api-manager/2.x/gatekeeper

Author: Done! Thanks!
